README.md, before:

master [![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/58lcjnr0mb9uc8c8/branch/master?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/lexxmark/winflexbison/branch/master)

bison2.7 [![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/58lcjnr0mb9uc8c8/branch/bison2.7?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/lexxmark/winflexbison/branch/bison2.7)

## WinFlexBison - Flex and Bison for Microsoft Windows

Main winflexbison repository for http://sourceforge.net/projects/winflexbison/

## Downloads
Go to http://sourceforge.net/projects/winflexbison/files/

## HowTo
http://sourceforge.net/p/winflexbison/wiki/Visual%20Studio%20custom%20build%20rules/

## History
see [bin/Release/README.txt](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/lexxmark/winflexbison/master/bin/Release/README.txt)

## Example flex/bison files
Go to https://github.com/meyerd/flex-bison-example

## Release notes
NOTE:
2.4.x versions include bison version 2.7
2.5.x versions include bison version 3.0.x

=======
versions 2.4.12/2.5.15
--------------
upgrade win_bison to version 3.0.5

=======
versions 2.4.12/2.5.14
--------------
revert to Visual Studio 2015 due to false positive virus alarms for win_flex.exe

=======
versions 2.4.11/2.5.13
--------------
fixed VS 2017 compilation errors in location.cc

=======
versions 2.4.11/2.5.12
--------------
migrate to Visual Studio 2017

=======
versions 2.4.10/2.5.11
--------------
upgrade win_flex to version 2.6.4
fixed compilation warnings

=======
versions 2.4.9/2.5.10
--------------
data folder was up to dated for bison 3.0.4

=======
versions 2.4.9/2.5.9
--------------
recovered --header-file win_flex option

=======
versions 2.4.8/2.5.8
--------------
fixed outdated FlexLexer.h file

=======
versions 2.4.7/2.5.7
--------------
upgrade win_flex to version 2.6.3
fixed compilation warnings

=======
versions 2.4.6/2.5.6
--------------
upgrade win_bison to version 3.0.4
win_bison v2.7 is unchanged
add separate custom build rules for win_bison "custom_build_rules\win_bison_only"
    and win_flex "custom_build_rules\win_flex_only"

=======
versions 2.4.5/2.5.5
--------------
fix missing Additional Options in custom build rules
fix incorrect "----header-file" option in flex custom build rules
add some extra flex options to Visual Studio property pages:
   1. Prefix (--prefix="...")
   2. C++ Class Name (--yyclass="...")

=======
versions 2.4.4/2.5.4
--------------
fix silent errors in custom build rules
add some flex/bison options to Visual Studio property pages:
Bison:
   1. Output File Name (--output="...")
   2. Defines File Name (--defines="...")
   3. Debug (--debug)
   4. Verbose (--verbose)
   5. No lines (--no-lines)
   6. File Prefix (--file-prefix="...")
   7. Graph File (--graph="...")
   8. Warnings (--warnings="...")
   9. Report (--report="...")
   10. Report File Name (--report-file="...")
   
Flex:
   1. Output File Name (--outfile="...")
   2. Header File Name (--header-file="...")
   3. Windows compatibility mode (--wincompat)
   4. Case-insensitive mode (--case-insensitive)
   5. Lex-compatibility mode (--lex-compat)
   6. Start Condition Stacks (--stack)
   7. Bison Bridge Mode (--bison-bridge)
   8. No #line Directives (--noline)
   9. Generate Reentrant Scanner (--reentrant)
   10. Generate C++ Scanner (--c++)
   11. Debug Mode (--debug)

=======
versions 2.4.3/2.5.3
--------------
fix incorrect #line directives in win_flex.exe
see https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=542482

=======
versions 2.4.2/2.5.2
--------------
backport parallel invocations of win_bison version 2.7
win_bison of version 3.0 is unchanged

versions 2.4.1/2.5.1
--------------
remove XSI extention syntax for fprintf function (not implemented in windows)
this fixes Graphviz files generation for bison

NOTE:
2.4.x versions will include bison version 2.7
2.5.x versions will include bison version 3.0

version 2.5
--------------
upgrade win_bison to version 3.0 and make temporary win_bison's files process unique (so parallel invocations of win_bison are possible)

NOTE: There are several deprecated features were removed in bison 3.0 so this version can break your projects.
Please see http://savannah.gnu.org/forum/forum.php?forum_id=7663
For the reason of compatibility I don't change win_flex_bison-latest.zip to refer to win_flex_bison-2.5.zip file.
It still refer to win_flex_bison-2.4.zip 

version 2.4
--------------
fix problem with "m4_syscmd is not implemented" message. Now win_bison should output correct 
diagnostic and error messages.

version 2.3
--------------
hide __attribute__ construction for non GCC compilers

version 2.2
--------------
added --wincompat option to win_flex (this option changes <unistd.h> unix include with <io.h> windows analog
  also isatty/fileno functions changed to _isatty/_fileno)
fixed two "'<' : signed/unsigned mismatch" warnings in win_flex generated file

version 2.1
--------------
fixed crash when execute win_bison.exe under WindowsXP (argv[0] don't have full application path)
added win_flex_bison-latest.zip package to freeze download link

version 2.0
--------------
upgrade win_bison to version 2.7 and win_flex to version 2.5.37

version 1.2
--------------
fixed win_flex.exe #line directives (some #line directives in output file were with unescaped backslashes)

version 1.1
--------------
fixed win_flex.exe parallel invocations (now all temporary files are process specific)
added FLEX_TMP_DIR environment variable support to redirect temporary files folder
added '.exe' to program name in win_flex.exe --version output (CMake support)
fixed win_bison.exe to use /data subfolder related to executable path rather than current working directory

Commit message:

Declare Visual Studio 2013 as min requirement

README.md, after:

master [![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/58lcjnr0mb9uc8c8/branch/master?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/lexxmark/winflexbison/branch/master)

bison2.7 [![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/58lcjnr0mb9uc8c8/branch/bison2.7?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/lexxmark/winflexbison/branch/bison2.7)

## WinFlexBison - Flex and Bison for Microsoft Windows

Main winflexbison repository for http://sourceforge.net/projects/winflexbison/

## Downloads
Go to http://sourceforge.net/projects/winflexbison/files/

## Build requirements
  * Visual Studio 2013 or newer
  * optional: CMake (when building with CMake)

## HowTo
http://sourceforge.net/p/winflexbison/wiki/Visual%20Studio%20custom%20build%20rules/

## History
see [bin/Release/README.txt](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/lexxmark/winflexbison/master/bin/Release/README.txt)

## Example flex/bison files
Go to https://github.com/meyerd/flex-bison-example

## Release notes
NOTE:
2.4.x versions include bison version 2.7
2.5.x versions include bison version 3.0.x

=======
versions 2.4.12/2.5.15
--------------
upgrade win_bison to version 3.0.5

=======
versions 2.4.12/2.5.14
--------------
revert to Visual Studio 2015 due to false positive virus alarms for win_flex.exe

=======
versions 2.4.11/2.5.13
--------------
fixed VS 2017 compilation errors in location.cc

=======
versions 2.4.11/2.5.12
--------------
migrate to Visual Studio 2017

=======
versions 2.4.10/2.5.11
--------------
upgrade win_flex to version 2.6.4
fixed compilation warnings

=======
versions 2.4.9/2.5.10
--------------
data folder was up to dated for bison 3.0.4

=======
versions 2.4.9/2.5.9
--------------
recovered --header-file win_flex option

=======
versions 2.4.8/2.5.8
--------------
fixed outdated FlexLexer.h file

=======
versions 2.4.7/2.5.7
--------------
upgrade win_flex to version 2.6.3
fixed compilation warnings

=======
versions 2.4.6/2.5.6
--------------
upgrade win_bison to version 3.0.4
win_bison v2.7 is unchanged
add separate custom build rules for win_bison "custom_build_rules\win_bison_only"
    and win_flex "custom_build_rules\win_flex_only"

=======
versions 2.4.5/2.5.5
--------------
fix missing Additional Options in custom build rules
fix incorrect "----header-file" option in flex custom build rules
add some extra flex options to Visual Studio property pages:
   1. Prefix (--prefix="...")
   2. C++ Class Name (--yyclass="...")

=======
versions 2.4.4/2.5.4
--------------
fix silent errors in custom build rules
add some flex/bison options to Visual Studio property pages:
Bison:
   1. Output File Name (--output="...")
   2. Defines File Name (--defines="...")
   3. Debug (--debug)
   4. Verbose (--verbose)
   5. No lines (--no-lines)
   6. File Prefix (--file-prefix="...")
   7. Graph File (--graph="...")
   8. Warnings (--warnings="...")
   9. Report (--report="...")
   10. Report File Name (--report-file="...")

Flex:
   1. Output File Name (--outfile="...")
   2. Header File Name (--header-file="...")
   3. Windows compatibility mode (--wincompat)
   4. Case-insensitive mode (--case-insensitive)
   5. Lex-compatibility mode (--lex-compat)
   6. Start Condition Stacks (--stack)
   7. Bison Bridge Mode (--bison-bridge)
   8. No #line Directives (--noline)
   9. Generate Reentrant Scanner (--reentrant)
   10. Generate C++ Scanner (--c++)
   11. Debug Mode (--debug)

=======
versions 2.4.3/2.5.3
--------------
fix incorrect #line directives in win_flex.exe
see https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=542482

=======
versions 2.4.2/2.5.2
--------------
backport parallel invocations of win_bison version 2.7
win_bison of version 3.0 is unchanged

versions 2.4.1/2.5.1
--------------
remove XSI extention syntax for fprintf function (not implemented in windows)
this fixes Graphviz files generation for bison

NOTE:
2.4.x versions will include bison version 2.7
2.5.x versions will include bison version 3.0

version 2.5
--------------
upgrade win_bison to version 3.0 and make temporary win_bison's files process unique (so parallel invocations of win_bison are possible)

NOTE: There are several deprecated features were removed in bison 3.0 so this version can break your projects.
Please see http://savannah.gnu.org/forum/forum.php?forum_id=7663
For the reason of compatibility I don't change win_flex_bison-latest.zip to refer to win_flex_bison-2.5.zip file.
It still refer to win_flex_bison-2.4.zip

version 2.4
--------------
fix problem with "m4_syscmd is not implemented" message. Now win_bison should output correct
diagnostic and error messages.

version 2.3
--------------
hide __attribute__ construction for non GCC compilers

version 2.2
--------------
added --wincompat option to win_flex (this option changes <unistd.h> unix include with <io.h> windows analog
  also isatty/fileno functions changed to _isatty/_fileno)
fixed two "'<' : signed/unsigned mismatch" warnings in win_flex generated file

version 2.1
--------------
fixed crash when execute win_bison.exe under WindowsXP (argv[0] don't have full application path)
added win_flex_bison-latest.zip package to freeze download link

version 2.0
--------------
upgrade win_bison to version 2.7 and win_flex to version 2.5.37

version 1.2
--------------
fixed win_flex.exe #line directives (some #line directives in output file were with unescaped backslashes)

version 1.1
--------------
fixed win_flex.exe parallel invocations (now all temporary files are process specific)
added FLEX_TMP_DIR environment variable support to redirect temporary files folder
added '.exe' to program name in win_flex.exe --version output (CMake support)
fixed win_bison.exe to use /data subfolder related to executable path rather than current working directory
